Update bpfd README (#476)
bpfd-dev/bpfd: README.md

A system daemon for managing BPF programs that works both on a single node and
in a Kubernetes cluster using the bpfd operator and CRDs.

## Why bpfd?

### Why BPF?

BPF is a powerful general-purpose framework that allows running sandboxed
programs in the kernel.  It can be used for many purposes, including networking,
monitoring, tracing and security.

### Why BPF in Kubernetes?

Demand is increasing from both Kubernetes developers and users. Examples of bpf
in kubernetes include:

- [Cilium](https://cilium.io/) and
  [Calico](https://www.tigera.io/project-calico/) CNIs 
- [Pixe](https://px.dev/): Open source observability
- [KubeArmor](https://kubearmor.io/): Container-aware Runtime Security
  Enforcement System
- [Blixt](https://github.com/Kong/blixt): Gateway Api L4 conformance
  implementation
- [NetObserv](https://github.com/netobserv): Open Source Operator for network
  observability 

### Challenges for BPF in Kubernetes

- Requires privileged pods
  - BPF-enabled apps require at least CAP_BPF permissions, and more (depending
    on what they need to do).
  - These permissions give the pods great powers.
- Handling multiple BPF programs

>   - Not all libraries support multiple XDP programs sharing the same interface.

Author: Are there hooks other than XDP that aren't designed to support multiple programs?  Also, for XDP, this is only the case if you don't use libxdp or bpfd.

  - When multiple BPF programs are used, they can interfere with each other in

>     unpredictable ways.

Author: I agree with your addition, but think the existing bullet is valid too.

>     unpredictable ways.

Reviewer: Maybe? I think it needs some additional qualification because as it stands it could mean that an XDP program could interfere with a Tracepoint program in unexpected ways.

>     unpredictable ways.

Author: I could qualify it as:
- they can interfere with each other in unpredictable ways
+ some BPF programs can interfere with others in unpredictable ways.

However, for the example given, if I have a tracepoint in some code that I'm expecting to be hit based on receiving a packet, and if someone else installs an XDP program that drops those packets, then I might wonder why my tracepoint isn't getting hit.  In that case, it might be good to know that some other app installed that XDP program and I might want to investigate it.

- Debugging BPF-related problems is difficult -- particularly on Kubernetes.
- There are no standard libraries for loading and managing BPF programs leaving
  each application developer to implement their own.
- BPF byte code often needs to be compiled into associated applications.

### What is bpfd?

> bpfd is a system daemon that supports, loading, unloading, modifying, and
> monitoring BPF programs. The solution for Kubernetes uses an operator, built
> with the Operator SDK, that can deploy the bpfd daemon and a bpfd agent to all
> the nodes in a cluster. The agent supports well-defined Kubernetes APIs (CRDs)
> that can be used to manage the lifecycle of BPF programs across a Kubernetes
> cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bpfd is a software stack that aims to make it easy to load, unload, modify and monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. It is comprised of:

- bpfd: A system daemon that supports load, unload, modifying and monitoring of BPF programs exposed over a gRPC API
- eBPF CRDS: That provides a way to express intent to load BPF programs `XdpProgram`, `TcProgram` etc... and represent the runtime state of loaded programs via `BpfProgram`.
- bpfd-agent: That ensures that the `BpfPrograms` for a given node are in the desired state
- bpfd-operator: An operator, built using [Operator SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/) that manages the installation and lifecycle of bpfd-agent and the CRDs in a Kubernetes cluster.
```

bpfd is developed in Rust and built on top of Aya, a Rust BPF library.

The benefits of this solution include the following:

- Security

>   - Improved security because only the bpfd daemon, which can be tightly

Reviewer: You could mention here that only a single thread keeps these capabilities and the other threads (serving RPCs) do not.

    them to define rules for the ordering of networking BPF programs
- Visibility/Debuggability
  - Improved visibility into what BPF programs are running on a system, which
    enhances the debuggability for developers, admins, and customer support.
  - The greatest benefit is achievd when all apps use bpfd, but even if they
    aren't bpfd can provide visibility into all the BPF programs loaded on the
    nodes in a cluster.
- Multi-program Support
  - Support for the coexistence of multiple BPF programs from multiple users.
  - Uses the [libxdp multiprog
    protocol](https://github.com/xdp-project/xdp-tools/blob/master/lib/libxdp/protocol.org)
    to allow multiple XDP programs on single interface
  - This same protocol is also supported for TC programs to provide a common
    multi-program user experience across both TC and XDP.
  - An additional benefit for TC is that it makes the re-ordering and inserting
    of new programs atomic.
- Productivity
  - Simplifies the deployment of BPF programs in a Kubernetes cluster.
  - Improved ease of use and productivity because developers can use a standard
    framework for managing BPF programs rather than developing their own.

>   - Developers can still use Cilium/libxdp/Aya/etc libraries for BPF

Reviewer: s/libxdp/libbpf/g

Author: I changed this, but
a) can't they use libxdp too?
b) I didn't do /g because the other instances were where I mentioned libxdp multiprog.

Reviewer: You could, but I don't feel its a good example:

libxdp is used for:
a. loading and attaching xdp programs
b. working with af_xdp sockets

if you move (a) to bpfd, then you aren't left with much

Author: I'll leave libxdp out to keep things simple, but I feel like it's disingenuous for us to say you can't attach multiple programs to an XDP hookpoint without bpfd because you can -- you just need to use libxdp.

Author: Never mind that comment I just made and deleted.  I agree with you.

# [![bpfd](./docs/img/bpfd.svg)](https://bpfd.netlify.app/)

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![License:
MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD_2--Clause-orange.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause)
[![License: GPL
v2](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPL_v2-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html)
![Build status][build-badge] [![Book][book-badge]][book-url]

[build-badge]:
    https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/bpfd-dev/bpfd/build.yml?branch=main
[book-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/read%20the-book-9cf.svg
[book-url]: https://bpfd.netlify.app/

> bpfd is a system daemon for managing BPF programs that works both on a single

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bpfd is a system daemon for managing BPF programs that works both on a single linux
```

> node and in a Kubernetes cluster using the bpfd operator and CRDs.

Author: I think Linux is true today. Would it ever run on anything but Linux?  Windows?

## Why BPF?

BPF is a powerful general-purpose framework that allows running sandboxed
programs in the kernel.  It can be used for many purposes, including networking,
monitoring, tracing and security.

## Why BPF in Kubernetes?

Demand is increasing from both Kubernetes developers and users. Examples of BPF
in Kubernetes include:

- [Cilium](https://cilium.io/) and
  [Calico](https://www.tigera.io/project-calico/) CNIs 
- [Pixie](https://px.dev/): Open source observability
- [KubeArmor](https://kubearmor.io/): Container-aware runtime security
  enforcement system
- [Blixt](https://github.com/Kong/blixt): Gateway API L4 conformance
  implementation
- [NetObserv](https://github.com/netobserv): Open source operator for network
  observability 

## Challenges for BPF in Kubernetes

> - Requires privileged pods

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Requires privileged pods.
```

  - BPF-enabled apps require at least CAP_BPF permissions and potentially more
    depending on the type of program that is being attached.
  - Since the Linux capabilities are very broad it is challenging to constrain a
    pod to the minimum set of privileges required. This can allow them to do
    damage (either unintentionally or intentionally).

> - Handling multiple BPF programs on the same BPF hooks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Handling multiple BPF programs on the same BPF hooks.
```

  - Not all BPF hooks are designed to support multiple programs.

>   - Some software using BPF assumes exclusive use of a BPF hook and can
>     unintentionally eject existing programs when being attached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Some software using BPF assumes exclusive use of a BPF hook and can
    unintentionally eject existing programs when being attached.  Which can result in silent failures and indeterministic behavior.
```

- Debugging problems with deployments is hard.
  - The cluster administrator may not be aware that BPF programs are being used
    in a cluster.
  - It is possible for some BPF programs to interfere with others in

>     unpredictable ways.

Author: @dave-tucker FYI, I generalized this comment and moved it down to the "debugging" bullet.

  - SSH access or a privileged pod is necessary to determine the state of BPF
    programs on each node in the cluster.
- There are no standard libraries for loading and managing BPF programs leaving

>   each application developer to implement their own.

Author: I agree that could be improved.  Your statement about k8s is a good one.  On non-k8s, aren't there still challenges with the "managing" part, or the lifecycle management?  And, I assume it's still the case that Cilium doesn't support TC.  I'll do an update on this.

>   each application developer to implement their own.

Author: Actually, the k8s issues are kind of covered in the next bullet.  I'll push an update and you can see what you think.

- Deployment on Kubernetes is not simple.

> 	  - It is an involved process that requires first writing a daemon that loads

Reviewer 3: This isn't rendoring correctly

	    your BPF bytecode and deploying it using a DaemonSet.
	  - This requires careful design and intricate knowledge of the BPF program
	    lifecycle to ensure your program stays loaded and that you can easily
	    tolerate pod restarts and upgrades.

> 

Reviewer 2: What about fine grain versioning problems? 

Something along the lines of....

- In Bpf enabled K8s deployments today the Bpf Program is often embedded into the userspace binary that loads and interacts with it.  This means there's no easy way to have fine-grained versioning control  of the bpfProgram in relation to it's accompanying userspace counterpart 

Or something like that :)

## What is bpfd?

bpfd is a software stack that aims to make it easy to load, unload, modify and

> monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. bpfd comprises:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. bpfd includes the following core components:
```

> monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. bpfd comprises:

Reviewer 3: Read a little funny. Maybe change to:
```suggestion
monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. bpfd is comprised of:
```

Author: Everyone is commenting on this :-).  Dave said what you said.  I changed his suggestion to what you see because that is the proper English usage (i.e., the whole comprises the parts).  However, many people use it as you and Dave suggest, so that is becoming more accepted, though is still controversial.  The non-controversial option is to say "is composed of".  However, I'm going with Andrew's suggestion: "includes the following core components".

  - bpfd: A system daemon that supports loading, unloading, modifying and
	  monitoring of BPF programs exposed over a gRPC API.

>   - eBPF CRDS: That provide a way to express intent to load BPF programs

Reviewer 3: Not sure how to show updates across multiple lines, but consider rewording to:
```
- eBPF CRDS: bpfd provides a set of CRDs (`XdpProgram`, `TcProgram`, etc.) that provide a way to express intent to load BPF programs as well as a bpfd generated CRD ( `BpfProgram`) used to represent the runtime state of loaded programs.
```

	  `XdpProgram`, `TcProgram`, etc. and represent the runtime state of loaded
	  programs via `BpfProgram`. 

>   - bpfd-agent: That ensures that the `BpfPrograms` for a given node are in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - bpfd-agent: A container running in the bpfd daemonset that ensures that the requested BPF programs for a given node are in the
```

Author: I tweaked your suggestion a little.

	  desired state.
  - bpfd-operator: An operator, built using [Operator

> 	  SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/) that manages the installation and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	  SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/), that manages the installation and
```

	  lifecycle of bpfd-agent and the CRDs in a Kubernetes cluster.

bpfd is developed in Rust and built on top of Aya, a Rust BPF library.

The benefits of this solution include the following:

- Security
  - Improved security because only the bpfd daemon, which can be tightly
    controlled, has the privileges needed to load BPF programs, while access to
    the API can be controlled via standard RBAC methods.  Within bpfd, only a
    single thread keeps these capabilities while the other threads (serving
    RPCs) do not.
  - Gives the administrators control over who can load programs.

>   - Allows administrators to define rules for the ordering of networking BPF

Reviewer 2: road map?

Author: Yes.  We plan to build policies around this, but it doesn't exist yet.

    programs. (ROAD MAP)
- Visibility/Debuggability
  - Improved visibility into what BPF programs are running on a system, which
    enhances the debuggability for developers, administrators, and customer
    support.
  - The greatest benefit is achieved when all apps use bpfd, but even if they
    don't, bpfd can provide visibility into all the BPF programs loaded on the
    nodes in a cluster.
- Multi-program Support
  - Support for the coexistence of multiple BPF programs from multiple users.
  - Uses the [libxdp multiprog
    protocol](https://github.com/xdp-project/xdp-tools/blob/master/lib/libxdp/protocol.org)
    to allow multiple XDP programs on single interface
  - This same protocol is also supported for TC programs to provide a common
    multi-program user experience across both TC and XDP.

>   - An additional benefit for TC is that it makes the re-ordering and inserting

Author: It is.  And, TC may change, so I'm just going to delete that bullet.

    of new programs atomic.
- Productivity
  - Simplifies the deployment of BPF programs in a Kubernetes cluster.

>   - Improved ease of use and productivity because developers can use a standard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Improved ease of use and productivity, developers can stop worrying about program lifecycle (loading, attaching, pin management, etc) and use existing bpf libraries to interact with their program maps using well defined pin points which are managed by bpfd.
```

    framework for managing BPF programs rather than developing their own.
  - Developers can still use Cilium/libbpf/Aya/etc libraries for BPF
    development, and load/unload with bpfd.

>   - Provides BPF Bytecode Image Specifications that allows fine-grained separate

Reviewer 2: Ahh cool You had this here :)

You can ignore my comment above if you want

Author: I think it's okay -- the first comment describes the problem, while this one describes the solution.

  - While there are libraries for the basic loading and unloading of BPF
    programs, a lot of code is often needed around them for lifecycle
    management.
- Deployment on Kubernetes is not simple.
  - It is an involved process that requires first writing a daemon that loads
	  your BPF bytecode and deploying it using a DaemonSet.
  - This requires careful design and intricate knowledge of the BPF program
	  lifecycle to ensure your program stays loaded and that you can easily
	  tolerate pod restarts and upgrades.
  - In Bpf enabled K8s deployments today, the Bpf Program is often embedded into
    the userspace binary that loads and interacts with it. This means there's no
    easy way to have fine-grained versioning control of the bpfProgram in
    relation to it's accompanying userspace counterpart.

## What is bpfd?

bpfd is a software stack that aims to make it easy to load, unload, modify and
monitor BPF programs whether on a single host, or in a Kubernetes cluster. bpfd
includes the following core components:

  - bpfd: A system daemon that supports loading, unloading, modifying and
	  monitoring of BPF programs exposed over a gRPC API.

>   - eBPF CRDS: That provide a way to express intent to load BPF programs

Reviewer 3: You left the original line in and then added my suggestion as a new bullet. Delete this original bullet item.
